
## Build Time

The 'Original' Font
===================
The font before any changes are made.


The 'Clean' Font
================
The font with some minor cleanup done to it.

The 'Processed' Font Base
========================================
The framework / skeleton processed for transmission.

- The hmtx/vmtx tables have been (mostly) cleared.

- If CFF font:
   - The Charstrings have been zeroed.
   - The Charstrings offsets are sparse.
   - The charset info is zeroed.
- Else if TrueType font:
   - The glyf table has been zeroed.
   - The loca table is made sparse.

The cmap table has been zeroed.

The processed font data has been run length encoded.

A block of meta data about the font has been prepended; AKA the header info.


## Run Time - Server

Based on the requested name the server servers the processed base.

Based on the requested name and list of code points the server serves a glyph_bundle.



## Run Time

### Browser Base Processing

The 'Fetched' Font Base
========================================
The fetched font base is the processed font base.

Note that (hopefully) the data was gzip'd for transmission.

The Header Data
===============
The header data is the meta data prepended to the processed base.
The header data is a JSON dictionary and is parsed into the headerInfo.
Note that the header data is not run length encoded.

The Run Length Encoded Data
================================
The data after the header data in the run length encoded (rle) data.

Note: the header data and rle data are in one Array buffer and Javascript
DataViews are used to access them.

The Run Length Decoded Font Base
================================
The rle data is run length decoded (rld).

This data is also known as the 'raw base' data.

Note: the header data and rld data are in one Array buffer and Javascript
DataViews are used to access them.


The Base Font
=============

The base font is generated by modifying the run length decoded data:

- The cmap format 4 and 12 data is set.
- If CFF the charset is set.
- The data is 'sanitized' to so the font can pass the OTS test.


